Narasimha




            © www.allthingsvedic.in
Hiranyaksha       Varaha



              © www.allthingsvedic.in
Hiranyakashyapu     Brahma



                  © www.allthingsvedic.in
         Neither inside nor outside
    Neither during the day nor at night
      Neither ground nor in the sky
    Neither by weapons nor by hands
      Neither by human nor animal
Neither living nor non-living created by you
      Neither by a deity nor demon




                              Hiranyakashyapu     Brahma



                                                © www.allthingsvedic.in
Prahlada



           © www.allthingsvedic.in
Narasimha



            © www.allthingsvedic.in
© www.allthingsvedic.in
Veerabhadra     Sharaba



              © www.allthingsvedic.in
Astronomically

Narasimha emerges from a pillar — not the sky or the
earth — but from something in-between. This can
symbolize the hidden dimensions or forces in the
universe that we don’t normally see. Just like
wormholes or the strange behaviour at quantum levels,
the universe may hold dormant power in the most
unexpected places, waiting to reveal itself?

Narasimha is super violent, but protects the innocent.
Stars explode, galaxies collide, but also create and
protect what is needed for life. Black holes consume
everything, yet shape the galaxies. Destruction may not
always be negative.




                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
Philosophically

Prahlad stays calm and centered while everything
around him is in chaos. He is the still point in the midst
of chaos – could he be the observer, the inner
steadiness when everything else is falling?

Hiranyakashipu thinks he’s above the gods and nature.
Maybe he represents the ego that tries to dominate
nature? But a mere pillar of stone humbles him. Nature
can’t be controlled — and if we forget that, we will be
corrected by forces greater than us

Narasimha is neither man nor animal, appears at
neither day nor night — basically, breaking all binary
logic. This shows that reality can hold contradictory
truths. Reality may be stranger than what we think.            Prahlada



                                                             © www.allthingsvedic.in
Self reflection

Narasimha is a fierce and aggressive form of Vishnu, to
destroy evil and protect the righteous. Narasimha
protected his devotee from a tyrant of a father.

Has aggressive energy been constructive and/or
destructive in your life? How can you channel it
positively in the future?

Have you stood up for someone / something you
believed in, despite stiff opposition?

Has there been a situation where you witnessed
injustice? How did you react? How did you address it?

Can you live with “shades of grey”, or do you search for   Narasimha
binary answers – yes/no, good/bad, this/that,
here/there and so on?

                                                           © www.allthingsvedic.in
allthingsvedic.in
vikram devatha




                    © www.allthingsvedic.in
