Mahalakshmi




              © www.allthingsvedic.in
          ऊ"व$मल
               ू मध:शाखम-व.थं 2ाहुर6ययम ् |
    छ;दां=स य?य पणा$Bन य?तं वेद स वेदFवत ् || 15.1||

ūrdhva-mūlam adhaḥ-śhākham aśhvatthaṁ prāhur avyayam
    chhandānsi yasya parṇāni yas taṁ veda sa veda-vit
     ūrdhva-mūlam—with roots above; adhaḥ—downward; śhākham—
 branches; aśhvattham—the sacred fig tree; prāhuḥ—they speak; avyayam—
eternal; chhandānsi—Vedic mantras; yasya—of which; parṇāni—leaves; yaḥ—
 who; tam—that; veda—knows; saḥ—he; veda-vit—the knower of the Vedas

  They speak of an eternal aśhvatth tree, with its roots above and
 branches below. Its leaves are the Vedic hymns, and the one who
     knows the secret of this tree is the knower of the Vedas.
             https://www.holy-bhagavad-gita.org/chapter/15/verse/1/




                                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
              Taurus      Scorpio      Libra           Aries
              Cancer     Capricorn   Sagittarius      Gemini
               Virgo       Pisces     Aquarius          Leo




 Cancer       Taurus       Virgo       Aries            Leo       Gemini
Capricorn     Scorpio      Pisces      Libra          Aquarius   Sagittarius




      Earth             Water                  Fire              Air

                                                                       © www.allthingsvedic.in
Mahasaraswati   Mahalakshmi   Mahakali    Maheshwari




                                         © www.allthingsvedic.in
For the Mother is one but she comes before us with
differing aspects;

Four great Aspects of the Mother, four of her leading
Powers and Personalities have stood in front in her
guidance of this universe... To the four we give the four
great names, Maheshwari, Mahakali, Mahalakshmi,
Mahasaraswati.

The four Powers of the Mother are four of her outstanding
Personalities, portions and embodiments of her divinity
through whom she acts on her creatures, orders and
harmonises her creations in the worlds and directs the
working out of her thousand forces.

Sri Aurobindo, in “The Mother”, pg 20




                                                            © www.allthingsvedic.in
Mahalakshmi

“Attractive to the heart. All turn with joy and longing to
Mahalakshmi. She throws the spell of the intoxicating sweetness
of the Divine. To be close to her is a profound happiness. Grace
and charm and tenderness flow from her
Wherever she lets her smile, the soul is seized by bliss
Where she presses her feet course streams of Ananda.
Harmony and beauty of the mind and soul is Her demand
Through love and beauty she lays on men the yoke of the Divine.
Life is turned into a rich work of celestial art and all existence into
a poem of delight. Even the simplest things are made wonderful
by her intuition. She meets devotion with the passionate
attraction of the Divine”

Sri Aurobindo, in “The Mother”, pg 26




                                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
Each group works on something that embodies these traits


Room 1: narrate a story for the qualities of Mahalakshmi

Room 2: design a fashion dress for these traits

Room 3: find/speak about an animal which has these traits

Room 4: plan a dinner date that reflects these qualities

Roomless: you pick!


Pls share the links (if any) in the chat window




                                                            © www.allthingsvedic.in
Water

Where in your life do you feel soft and gentle? How can you bring
this softness to other parts of you?

Think of a time when you felt truly happy. What helped you feel
this bliss? How can you invite this feeling more often?

What parts of your life are in harmony right now? How can you
create such harmony for others?

Is there a feeling or worry you keep to yourself? How can you
share it so it doesn’t stay stuck inside?

When sadness or overwhelm visits you, what helps you feel calm
and clear again? How can you reach for it next time?

Which quality do you want to grow in yourself this month? Is there
something around you that reminds you of this quality?




                                                                     © www.allthingsvedic.in
allthingsvedic.in
vikram devatha




                    © www.allthingsvedic.in
