Dreamwork




            © www.allthingsvedic.in
Dreamwork can be a potent portal into the world of intuition that
Water represents. Through our dreams, we might receive gifts from
Life: messages that reveal what we are not seeing, or hints from soul
guiding us forward.

So starting soon, and leading to the Water retreat, we invite you to
keep a dream journal. This could be a notebook and pen, or a voice
recorder on your phone, or even a sketch book. Whatever your tool,
place this beside your bed, so it is easily accessible when you wake up.

On your first night of going to sleep with the dream tool beside you,
hold the intention to remember your dreams. This is the most
important step to start harnessing our dreams. Even those who say
they never remember their dreams are often surprised by how the
simple intention to remember them can work. So see if you can find a
place within yourself which is longing to reconnect with the mysterious
landscape of your dreams, and allow that longing to express its
intention, as you go to sleep the first night with your dream journal.




                                                                           © www.allthingsvedic.in
When you wake up in the morning, or in the middle of the night,
immediately write down before it's forgotten. If writing is not your
method, then you could also voice record it on your phone, or share it
with someone immediately.. what ever works for you, that will help
you acknowledge and honour your dreams!

Often, the mind will dismiss our dreams as trivial when we wake up, so
sometimes we may need to push through that conditioned tendency.
Even if you remember only a short fragment, honour that by noting it
down. When we intend to honour our dream fragments, that's when
they reveal themselves to us.

Wishing you beautiful dreaming.

-- Niharika




                                                                         © www.allthingsvedic.in
allthingsvedic.in
vikram devatha




                    © www.allthingsvedic.in
