Vamana




         © www.allthingsvedic.in
Hiranyakashyapu    Prahlada



                  © www.allthingsvedic.in
Bali



       © www.allthingsvedic.in
Yagna     Vamana



        © www.allthingsvedic.in
Shukracharya



  © www.allthingsvedic.in
© www.allthingsvedic.in
Patal Loka



© www.allthingsvedic.in
Astronomically

The universe expanded from a tiny singularity after the
Big Bang, just as the small boy becomes large enough to
cross all worlds. Scale and complexity can emerge from
something very small

Vamana’s three steps may represent all of space, time,
and the ego. If we want to control and dominate
nature, we have to surrender to the Divine. The
grandest power can be humbled by something very
small

Vamana could also also represent gravity: an invisible,
underestimated force that governs everything

Scholars also refer to the three positions of the Sun             Bali
(rising, peak and setting) as the three steps


                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
Philosophically

Bali was almost about to conquer the heavens.. But
then came a small Brahmin boy.

However powerful we become, there is always
something vaster than the self. True growth lies in
bowing to the infinite.

Vishnu’s choice to come as a dwarf, teaches that the
divine doesn’t always appear grandly. Like the pillar in
the story of Narasimha Avatar, this story also asks us to
stay open to the sacred in small day to day objects and
people.

Bali offers his head for the third step - this is an act of
complete surrender, the highest form of charity. Not
giving possessions, but giving up identity and pride


                                                              © www.allthingsvedic.in
Philosophically

Vamana doesn’t destroy Mahabali in war; he blesses
him. Dharma may not be about fighting against the
wicked, but about restoring balance with compassion

In the process, Bali attains immortality. His surrender
grants him a place in Patala and the promise of
becoming Indra in a future age. So immortality in
spiritual terms comes from letting go.. Not holding on..




                                                           © www.allthingsvedic.in
Self reflection

Vamana curbs Bali’s power gently, honoring his virtues.
Recall a moment when kindness ruled over your
actions. Did ti change your views about power?

Vamana becomes Bali’s guardian in Patal Loka. Have you
ever protected or supported someone who once
opposed you?

Though all-powerful, Vamana acts with restraint and
fairness. Have you done similarly?

Vamana’s cosmic expansion is like unchecked ambition.
Have your desires ever outgrown what you could hold?
What did you learn from that?
                                                            Vamana



                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
allthingsvedic.in
vikram devatha




                    © www.allthingsvedic.in
