Rama Avatar
Narada   Narada
Krauncha   Brahma
Kingdom of Kosala   Dasharatha
Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata, Shatrugna   Protecting the yagna
Shivas bow
Kaikeyi and Manthara   Rama, Sita, Lakshmana
14 years of exile
Surpanakha   Sita and Ravana
Pushpak Vimana   Jatayu
Vanaras   Hanuman
Ashok Vatika
Ashok Vatika
Vanvasa
Ram Sethu   Adam’s Bridge
Ravana   Agni Pariksha in Divirumpola
Sahasra Ravana   Kali Mata
Luv and Kush
Philosophically
Dasharatha (Rider of Ten Chariots)
The human ruled by ten senses (the five organs of
perception and the five organs of action).

Kausalya (Skillfulness)
The one who acts skillfully and wisely, giving birth
Rama

Ayodhya (No Conflict)
A-yuddha — “without battle.” When the mind
becomes free of inner conflict, the light of the soul
shines naturally.
                                                        Dasharatha
Philosophically
Rama (Soul / Paramatma)
The inner light, Ra (light) and Ma (within). Rama is
the pure light/consciousness inside each of us.

Lakshmana (Awareness / Ananta Sesha)
The ever present awareness that serves and
protects Rama. Awareness follows the soul like
Lakshmana follows Rama. The two cannot be
separated.

Sita (Mind / Prakriti / Jivatma)
The manifest nature, or the individual self
(Jivatma), born of the Earth, which gets separated
                                                       Rama, Sita, Lakshmana
from the light within
Philosophically
Bharata
Devoted to light and knowledge

Ravana (Ten-headed)
The many-headed ego with desire, pride,
attachment.

The abduction of Sita
Prakriti (the mind) is kidnapped by ego. The soul
loses connection with its pure nature.

Hanuman (Prana / Life Force)
Breath, knowledge and devotion, that unites the
soul with the mind.
Astronomically
The Sun journeys through light and darkness.
Rama is from the Solar dynasty. He is exiled, and
asked to go into the dark forests in the South,
indicating the Sun’s journey to the south
(Dakshinayana). The light fades. Sita is separated
from Rama, energy and vitality falls and darkness
grows. Hanuman, the breath, bridges the soul and
nature, restoring balance. Rama’s victory over
Ravana marks the Sun’s gradual return to the
north, before Rama Rajya (Uttarayana). His return
to Ayodhya, celebrated as Diwali, symbolizes the
restoration of dharma in the world outside and
within.
                                                     Rama, Sita, Lakshmana
Astrologically
Just and noble ruler
Rama ruled Ayodhya with fairness and wisdom,
earning the love and respect of his people. His
reign, Ram Rajya, is the symbol of just and noble
leadership.

When was the last time you led a team or project?
Did you make decisions that were fair and
respected by everyone? What qualities do you
admire in good leaders? Did you express any of
those qualities in your own leadership?


                                                    Kingdom of Kosala
Astrologically
Righteousness
Though he was the rightful heir, Rama accepted his
exile to the forest without complaint, honouring his
father’s word and staying true to dharma. He gave
up his comfort for a higher purpose.

Have you ever given up comfort to do what is right?
What values do you refuse to compromise, even
when it’s hard?




                                                       14 years of exile
Astrologically
Courage and valour
Rama showed great bravery in his battle against
Ravana to rescue Sita. His courage came from love,
duty, and purpose.

What or who would you stand up for, no matter
what? What gives you strength to face challenges?




                                                     Rama, Sita, Lakshmana
Sources
https://www.tripoto.com/india/trips/the-epic-journey-of-lord-rama-from-ayodhya-to-lankamajor-12-places-
5e8a452894fc9

https://www.quora.com/Why-did-Sita-Mata-go-inside-the-Earth-after-the-birth-of-Luv-and-Kush
