The Lizard Family




                    © www.allthingsvedic.in
Breakfast with the Lizard family
The Lizard family just looooves having breakfast
together. On this special day, in the month of Ashada,
they made a plate of fried mosquitoes, with a side
dish of raw dragon flies. And as they were sipping
freshly made juice of squished ants, the conversation
turned to Astrology for some unknown reason.

Grandfather Lizard: Isn't it fascinating that there are
millions and millions of stars, but Astrologers
consider only 12 gahahahagahha

Teenage Lizard: ”Gahaha yes, and the best part is
that these astrologers consider the Sun and the
Moon as planets.. What fools. Sun is a star, and the
Moon is a satellite! Not sure what these fellows
smoke these days..



                                                          © www.allthingsvedic.in
Breakfast with the Lizard family
Grandfather Lizard: Wait, so you're saying that
astrologers think that the Sun and the Moon are
planets?? They are not! We should abide by scientific
truth, always. If it cannot be proved by science, then...

Teenage Lizard: Gahaha! That's what I find so funny
about astrology. They can't even get the basic
definitions right!

Grandfather Lizard: Well, it's true that from a scientific
perspective, the Sun is a star, and the Moon is a
satellite.

How would you, a Parent Lizard, an avid student of
Vedic Astrology respond?




                                                             © www.allthingsvedic.in
There are 3 “issues” in this conversation that need to
be addressed

1. Stars vs Signs
There are millions of stars in the sky. In Astrology, we
consider only the stars along the ecliptic, and group
them into 12. These 12 are the Signs. So Signs are a
collection of stars

2. Planet vs Grahas
Any body that moves in the sky (against the backdrop
of the fixed stars) is termed as a graha. Since the Sun
and Moon “move” in the sky, they are considered as
grahas

3. Whether astrology is a science, or not
Think of astrology as a language, rather than as a
science or not. It’s a language to speak with the
planets and stars.


                                                           © www.allthingsvedic.in
© www.allthingsvedic.in
