Houses
12 Matchboxes
Get 12 matchboxes, put away the matches.

Label each matchboxes with numbers, to help you track each
House.

As we explore each House (in subsequent slides), look around
and find small objects that symbolise each House

It should be tiny, tiny, tiny..

Put it into the matchbox

Find objects that are symbolic, hold personal significance, items
that will help you connect with that House. You may put more
than one object inside each match box.

When we meet, we’ll explore these boxes in more detail.
               Parashara            Kalidasa
Brihat Parashara Hora Shastra   Uttara Kalamrita
Varahamihira       Prithuyasas
   Brihat Jataka       Hora Sara
Venkata Sharma
 Sarvatha Chintamani
1 House
 !


ल"नं तनभु व
          ) ेत ् -ो/तं दे हः 3व4पमेव च।
वण: 4पं च शीलं च बलं चायःु -कABत)तम ्॥

lagnam tanur bhavet proktam dehah svarūpam eva ca
varno rūpam ca śīlam ca balam cāyuh prakīrtitam


The Lagna is called Tanu (body). It signifies
the physical body and one’s form.
Complexion, appearance, and character.
As well as strength and longevity are to be
judged from it.
BPHS, Chapter 11


                                                    Kendra, Trikona, Dharma, Sun
1 House
 !

Uttara Kalamrita: body, limbs, happiness and misery,
old age, knowledge, birth place, fame, dream,
strength, dignity, politics, longevity, tranquility, age,
hair, appearance, pride, livelihood, gambling for
others, stigma, honor, skin, sleep, proficiency,
embezzlement, nature to insult others, freedom from
sickness, detachment, nature, agency, perseverance
in cattle breeding, loss of sense of decorum, blame
from one's own castemen.

Sarvartha Chintamani: health, honour, qualities,
nature, conduct, age, state, caste, purity, happiness,
misery, expression, form, colour, wife of nephew - all
these are to be judged from the first house.

Hora Sara: physical growth, possessing limbs or
otherwise
                                                            Kendra, Trikona, Dharma, Sun
2 House
 nd


धनं EFवतीयमG   ु यते वाक् FवHं कुटुJबकम ्।
नेKं मख
      ु ं च FवEया च दMताः 3वणा)Nदकं तथा॥

dhanam dvitīyam ucyate vāk vittam kutumbakam
netram mukham ca vidyā ca dantāh svarnādikam tathā


The second (house) is called Dhana. It
signifies speech, wealth, and family. It also
denotes eyes, face, learning, teeth, and
gold and other valuables.

BPHS, Chapter 11




                                                     Maraka, Artha, Panapara, Jupiter
2 House
 nd

Uttara Kalamrita: speech, wealth, faith in sacred
tradition, supporting others, nails, enjoyment, truth
and falsehood, tongue, eyes, clothes, diamond,
copper, gems, pearl, determination, incense, family
relationship, trade, softness of speech, liberality, effort
to acquire wealth, friendship, friend, splendor,
miserliness in spending, pleasant oratorical ability,
scholarship, gold, silver, corn, modesty, setting nose,
firmness of mind, a close dependent, cycle of life and
death, living power, finance

Sarvartha Chintamani: manikya (ruby), pearl, gem,
metallic ores, articles, dress, gold, house, silver,
grains, transactions, buying and selling

Hora Sara: truthfulness, prudence, wealth

                                                              Maraka, Artha, Panapara, Jupiter
3 House
 rd


तत
 ृ ीयं सहजं -ो/तं Sातवृ ीय)पराUमम ्।
साहसं च Vवणं च भज  ु ौ याKाNदकं तथा॥

trtīyam sahajam proktam bhrātr-vīrya-parākramam
sāhasam ca śravanam ca bhujau yātrādikam tathā


The third (house) is called Sahaja. It
signifies brothers, valour, and courage. It
also denotes boldness, hearing, arms,
and travels, etc.

BPHS, Chapter 11




                                                  Apoklima, Upachaya, Kama, Mars
3 House
 rd

Uttara Kalamrita: courage, brothers, battle, ears,
legs, roadside place, confusion of the mind, fitness,
heaven or paradise, causing sorrow, dream, soldier,
heroic valor, relatives, friend, wandering, throat,
taking unspoiled or pure food, partition of property,
ornaments, nobility, learning, pastime, physical
strength, gain, physical growth, noble descent,
attendant, the part of the hand between the
forefinger and the thumb (sacred to the Manes), maid
servant, short journey by a good vehicle, a large
undertaking, one's own religious duty

Sarvartha Chintamani: daughter-in-law, younger
brother, welfare, intellect, gains, servants, servant
maids, valorous actions and things relating to brother

Hora Sara: one's voice, strength, courage, co-born
                                                         Apoklima, Upachaya, Kama, Mars
4 House
 th


चतथु X सख
        ु मGु येत मातभ
                     ृ Zू मगह
                            ृ ाNदकम ्।
वाहनं बMधसु JबMधो \दयं जलसJभवम ्॥

caturtham sukham ucyeta mātr-bhūmi-grhādikam
vāhanam bandhu-sambandho hrdayam jala-
sambhavam


The fourth is called Sukha (happiness).
It signifies mother, land, house, vehicles,
relations, the heart, and things
connected with water.

BPHS, Chapter 11


                                               Kendra, Moksha, Moon
4 House
 th

Uttara Kalamrita: learning, kingdom, house, travel, vehicles like rickshaws and
small boats, oil bath, mother, relatives, friend, caste, garment, well, water, milk,
perfume, happy man, good name, a life saving drug, trust, false allegation, tent,
victory, tiresome work, land and agriculture, a garden, digging of a pond or well,
wells for the public use, mother's side, sharp intellect, father’s wife,
accumulation of wealth, a palatial house, art, house opening, conclusion,
disposition, damage to one's property, paternal property, celestial food, art of
disclosing where abouts of stolen property, an ant hill, promotion of Vedic and
sacred lore, buffalos, cows, horses, elephants, surplus corn, of grain produced,
wet lands

Sarvartha Chintamani: House, treasure, entry into caves and other holes, great
medicines, cultivated lands, fields, orchards, friends, water, ceremonies in
connection with ancestors, coming and going, village, happiness, demotions,
loss of post, gains, entry into a house, increase, parents, deeds relating to one's
native country and gains there from

Hora Sara: one's comforts (happiness), relatives, mental disposition, and mother       Kendra, Moksha, Moon
5 House
 th


प]चमं पK  ु मG
             ु येत बE
                    ु ^धम)MK_च FवEयया।
पव
 ू प
   ) `
     ु यं च FवEवaवं गभा)धानाNदकं तथा॥

pañcamam putram ucyeta buddhir mantraś ca vidyayā
pūrva-punyam ca vidvattvam garbhādhānādikam tathā


The fifth is called Putra (children). It signifies
intelligence, mantra, and learning. Also past
merit, scholarship, and matters relating to
conception and progeny.

BPHS, Chapter 11




                                                     Panapara, Trikona, Dharma, Jupiter
5 House
 th

Uttara Kalamrita: progeny, father's virtuous acts, a king, a minister, good
morals, mechanical art, mind, learning, pregnancy, discretion, umbrella,
instructive stories, auspicious letters, garments, a great desirable action,
paternal property, foresightedness, fortune through wife's luck, liasions
with courtesans, profundity, firmness, secret, decorum, writing of news,
well-being, friendship, a long literary production, engaging oneself in any
business, belly, invocation through mantras, Uncountable wealth, gift of
cooked rice, discrimination between virtue and vice, chanting of Veda
Mantras, wisdom, ability for criticism (deep pondering), ways of earning
money, a festive occasion when drum is played, great contentment,
profound learning, hereditary post of minister

Sarvartha Chintamani: Deeds of many kinds, humility, execution,
planning, learning, Niti, intellect, hymns, chanting, compromise,
pregnancy, children, intellect and happiness derived through children and
wealth

Hora Sara: one's nature, extent of mental calibre, and sons                    Panapara, Trikona, Dharma, Jupiter
6 House
 th


षcठं eरपभ
        ु व
          ) ेE रोग ऋणशKभ
                       ु यं तथा।
सेवकाः श3Kपीडा च /लेशाNदकमद  ु ा\तम ्॥

shashtham ripur bhaved roga rna-śatru-bhayam tathā
sevakāh śastra-pīdā ca kleśādikam udāhrtam


The sixth is called Ripu (enemy). It signifies
disease, debts, and fear from enemies. Also
servants, injury from weapons, and various
forms of trouble and suffering.

BPHS, Chapter 11




                                                     Apoklima, Upachaya, Dushtana, Artha, Mars and Saturn
6 House
 th

BPHS: maternal uncle, doubts about death, enemies, ulcers, step mother

Uttara Kalamrita: disease, obstacle, fighting in combat, maternal uncle, phlegm,
swelling in the body, cruel actions, insanity, a boil, enmity, miserliness, sickness,
venereal wound, cooked rice, weariness, debt, reproach, enemy's satisfaction,
consumption, heat, a wound, mental worry, intense anguish, enmity with many
people, incessant eye trouble, trouble and fear from one's benefactors, untimely
meals, a fall from a boat, trouble and fear from one's benefactors, gain, exertion,
poison, a severe colic or gout, fetters, guarding one's own credit, urinary trouble,
dysentery, the six flavors, severe reproach, service, theft, calamity, prison house,
misunderstandings with brothers

Sarvartha Chintamani: ill health, bad state, enemies, servants, cruel deeds, heavy
actions, witchcraft applied by enemies with an intention of killing enemies, doubts,
wars, uncle, buffaloes, diseases, etc.

Hora Sara: one's cousins, enemies, wounds, etc.
                                                                                        Apoklima, Upachaya, Dushtana, Artha, Mars and Saturn
7 House
 th


सhतमं यवु Bतः -ो/तं Fववाहः काम एव च।
भाया) jयपारसंबMधो याKाNदकमद ु ा\तम ्॥

saptamam yuvatih proktam vivāhah kāma eva ca ।
bhāryā vyapāra-sambandho yātrādikam udāhrtam ॥


The seventh is called Yuvati. It signifies
marriage and desire (kāma). Wife, business
associations, and journeys, etc., are also
indicated from it.

BPHS, Chapter 11


                                                 Kendra, Kama, Maraka, Venus and Jupiter
7 House
 th

BPHS: wife, travel, trade, loss of sight, death

Uttara Kalamrita: marriage, unchastity, winning of a love, enmity with a debauched
female, deviation from the right path, good perfume, music, flowers, taking of savory
food and drinks, chewing betel leaves with areca, break in a journey, curd, loss of
memory, acquisition of garments, semen virility, faithfulness of the husband, a pair of
wives, generative organs, urine, the anus, trade, sweet drink, tasting of nectar, soup,
ghee, etc., gifts, loss of power and status, victory over enemy, money kept in another
place, controversy, sexual union, adopted son, relishing food prepared in ghee,
foreign place, wife, all secret pleasures due to sex, theft

Sarvartha Chintamani: buying, health, trade, debates, lust, servants, wife, women,
thefts, returning from travel, sister's son (nephew), coming and going

Hora Sara: one's progenic ability, marital success etc.
                                                                                          Kendra, Kama, Maraka, Venus and Jupiter
