Sun
The Sun
The largest, mightiest body

Source of all light and energy

Source of Life itself

Holds everything in their rightful place

Revolving around something much larger

Rises a little to the south (or north) each day

Takes 365 days to complete 360 degrees
      11H   10H   9H
12H                    8H



1H                     7H




2H                     6H

       3H    4H   5H
 Never was there a time when I did
not exist, nor you, nor all these kings;
nor in the future shall any of us cease
                 to be.

Just as the soul continuously passes
 from childhood to youth to old age,
similarly, at the time of death, the soul
      passes into another body.
          Bhagawad Gita, 2.12 – 2.13
          by Swami Mukundananda
 As a person sheds worn-out garments
  and wears new ones, likewise, at the
time of death, the soul casts off its worn-
    out body and enters a new one.

              Bhagawad Gita, 2.22
             Swami Mukundananda


  … those who did good work in this
world [in their past life] attain a good
birth accordingly. They are born as a
  brāhmin, a kshatriya, or a vaiśya.

          Chandogya Upanishad, 5.10.7
Chiggala Sutta (SN 56.48)
Ramayana
Ra Ma: the light within (alternate: Paramatma)
Dasha Ratha: 10 chariots (sense organs & organs of action)
Kausalya: skillfully
Ayodhya: when there is no conflict, I find my light within
Sita: Mind or Prakriti (alternate: Jivatma)
Ravana (10 heads): ego
Prakriti kidnapped by the Ego
The Soul needs Hanuman to unite with Sita
Hanuman: son of Vayu, breath, Life-Force, Prana
Lakshmana: Ananta Sesha, awareness
Ramayana
Dharma, Righteousness:
What is your purpose? Why have you taken birth?
What values are important to you, even when difficult to uphold? Have
you ever sacrificed your desires for the sake of others?

Just and noble ruler:
What qualities do you admire in a leader? Do you embody those
qualities? Have you ever made decisions that were not respected by
others?

Courage and Valor:
What gives you strength and courage? What makes you shine?
Parashara: The Sun represents the Soul, Surya's eyes are honey coloured. He
has a square body. He is of clean habits, bilious, intelligent and has limited hair (on
his head).

Phala Deepika: A person ought to be divine about his own self, father, influence,
health, vitality and fortune from the Sun. It is through the Sun that a wise man gets
to ascertain about a person's copper, gold, father, anything auspicious, one's own
self, happiness prowess, courage, power, victory in war, service under the
sovereign, glory, any work relating to the God Siva, trip to forest or mountainous
regions, taking an active part in Homas or Yajnas, temple, acuteness and
enthusiasm. A worshipper of Shiva, a physician, a king, a performer of a sacrifice,
a minister, tiger, deer and the ruddy goose are signified by the Sun.

Uttara Kalamrita: The soul, self-realization, power, good strength, courage, valor,
enthusiasm, fortress, kingdom, lordship of the whole country, land, intense
severity, capture of the enemy, fire, heat, splendor, worship of Siva, bitterness,
hostility, old age, cattle, wickedness, father, king, being in royal favor, public life,
looking at the sky, one born of a timid person, world of mortals, square, grass, the
stomach, forest, eye, eye disease, thorned trees, wandering in or over the hills,
travelling, quadruped, bite, scorch, circular shape, timber, mental purity, body,
freedom from disease, bone, disease in the head, taste, ornaments, pearls, ruler of
the sky (control over airspace), short stature (like a dwarf), lord of the East, copper,
blood, a red cloth, a stone, shore of a river, coral, strong at mid-day, Eastern
direction, mouth, long standing anger, satvika (pure), red chandan or saffron, thick
or coarse yarn.
Planetary A!ects
Sun aspects only the 7th



                           R       Q   T            U

                                           Mutual aspect
                                           between Mars
                       Q                      and Sun



                               Q            Q



Source: BPHS, 26:2-5
Planetary A!ects
Sun aspects only the 7th



                                           Q
                                   Q
                           S   Q
                                       T
     Q                                         U



Source: BPHS, 26:2-5
  >           W                       R                                        Q

                                                         Neecha Bhanga                                Budha Aditya
               Planets
                                                          Raja Yoga: Sun                                  Yoga:
              around the
                                                         debilitated, but in                            Sun and
                 Sun               Q                       Kendra from                                  Mercury
                                        S                      Moon                                     together
                                                                                    R
              U           V           T<                                                                          QS

Vesi (planets in 2H from Sun): refined,       Success after struggle, strong leadership   Intelligence, skilful speech, sharp mind,
resourceful, builds wealth through effort     after setbacks                              discrimination in learning, leadership in
Vasi (planets in 12H from Sun): discipline,                                               knowledge or business
restraint, thoughtful approach to action      BPHS 40
Ubhayachari (planets on both sides):                                                      BPHS Ch 13-15
balanced, capable, strong character

BPHS 39
Parts of Speech
Noun = Planet
What is acting
The core energy or function you are interpreting

Verb = Duality (Masculine / Feminine)
The direction of expression
Outward or inward, active or receptive

Adverb = Modality (Cardinal / Fixed / Mutable)
How the action happens
Initiates, sustains, or changes

Adjective = Element (Fire / Earth / Air / Water)
The kin/quality of the action
(fiery, practical, intellectual, emotional)

Area of life = House
Where it shows up
The area of life being affected
Parts of Speech
Noun = Planet
What is acting
The core energy or function you are interpreting Sun, self

Verb = Duality (Masculine / Feminine)
The direction of expression
Outward or inward, active or receptive Aries, yang, outward

Adverb = Modality (Cardinal / Fixed / Mutable)
How the action happens
Initiates, sustains, or changes Aries, cardinal, leads

Adjective = Element (Fire / Earth / Air / Water)
The kin/quality of the action
(fiery, practical, intellectual, emotional) Aries, Fire, warmth

Area of life = House
Where it shows up
The area of life being affected
Parts of Speech
Noun = Planet
What is acting
The core energy or function you are interpreting Sun, self
                                                                  The self expresses outwardly
Verb = Duality (Masculine / Feminine)                             by leading warmly the family
The direction of expression
Outward or inward, active or receptive Aries, yang, outward
                                                                               or
Adverb = Modality (Cardinal / Fixed / Mutable)
How the action happens
Initiates, sustains, or changes Aries, cardinal, leads            The self shines by leading the
                                                                       family with warmth
Adjective = Element (Fire / Earth / Air / Water)
The kin/quality of the action
(fiery, practical, intellectual, emotional) Aries, Fire, warmth

Area of life = House
Where it shows up
The area of life being affected 2H, family
The intention
To predict the future:
You will be confident in public speaking
You are a public speaker                                      Sun in Libra, Yang, Cardinal, Air
You have addressed large gatherings
                                                               I am confident and assertive
To initiate a conversation:                                         in communicating
Have you ever spoken to an audience?

To invite a course of action:
Can you try presenting what you know, and see how you feel?

To remedy the planet:
Consider presenting what you know
Sun in Signs (without Houses)
Sun in Aries, Yang, Cardinal and Fire       Sun in Libra, Yang, Cardinal and Air
I am confident in leading transformations   I am confident and assertive in communicating

Sun in Taurus, Yin, Fixed and Earth         Sun in Scorpio, Yin, Fixed and Water
I am grounded in my commitments             I am grounded and resilient in my emotions

Sun in Gemini, Yang, Mutable and Air        Sun in Sagittarius is Yang, Mutable and Fire
I proactively adapt my communication        I am ambitious and adaptable in my creativity

Sun in Cancer, Yin, Cardinal and Water      Sun in Capricorn, Yin, Cardinal and Earth
I peacefully assert my emotions             I patiently set practical and grounded goals

Sun in Leo, Yang, Fixed and Fire            Sun in Aquarius is Yang, Fixed and Air
I enthusiastically focus on my passion      I proactively persevere towards freedom

Sun in Virgo, Yin, Mutable and Earth        Sun in Pisces, Yin, Mutable and Water
I gently and patiently collaborate          I intuitively respond to truth
