Moon
Moon
Much smaller than Earth, but impacts the tides Emotions
Illuminates the night   The mind
Periodically waxes and wanes Habits
Extreme temperatures     Emotional instability
Looks soft and beautiful Beauty, nourishment
Closest to Earth of all the Navagrahas Ruler of the senses
The tiniest body amongst the Navagrahas
Seems to be the same size as the Sun Are we making
                                     something
                                     insignificant very
                                     important?
Moon
Takes 27-28 days to complete one orbit around the Earth, anti-
clockwise (Sidereal month)

Distance covered by the Moon in a day is a Nakshatra

It takes 2d 6h to transit one Sign

But the Earth is moving anti clockwise around the Sun

It takes 29.5 days from one Full Moon to the next
(Synodic month)
           Shukla Paksha




Purnima                    Amavasya




          Krishna Paksha
      11H   10H    9H   8H
12H


1H                      7H




2H                      6H
       3H     4H   5H
Source: beam.community
Sleep
The Moon governs the mind and emotions
Karaka for the 4th House, how well we rest
The lunar cycle influences biological rhythm and melatonin
The Moon controls the night

Disturbances in sleep:
Mental activity
Stress and trauma
Screen time
Dogs, birds and cat
Sleep
For restful sleep:
Avoid caffeine and heavy meals at night
Cut out mental activity in the evenings
Reduce screen time before going to bed
Sleeping pills
Look at the Sun in the morning
Have a wind down ritual
Consistent sleep schedule
Box breathing
Viparita Karani

Keep room dark and quiet
Avoid exercise before sleep
Krishna Avatar
Krishna, the charioteer guiding the 5 sense organs against a 100 challenges

The Pandavas could represent the 5 sense organs:
•   Yudhishtira, son of Yama
•   Bhima, son of Vayu
•   Arjuna, son of Indra
•   Nakula, son of the Ashwini Kumars
•   Sahadeva, son of the Ashwini Kumars

Draupadi is the Kundalini that is being abused by the challenges of life

She calls out to Krishna for help, as the senses & sense organs are unable to protect her

The chariot that Krishna steers in the war, is the body represented by the Ascendant

Hanuman is the ambassador of Rama, the Soul
He sits on top of the chariot throughout the war

The Gopis represent different kinds of devotion - playful, joyous

Radha is the highest form of love, the Souls desire to merge with Source,
and cant be separated from Krishna

Rukmini represents love and devotion, coupled with righteousness and duty.
Krishna Avatar
Nurtures and protects
Which is your earliest memory of being nurtured and protected. How has that affected how
you nurture and protect others in need?

Detached and equanimous
When was the last time you were triggered? What could you have done to stay balanced?
What can help you be equanimous in emotionally charged situations?

Capacity to guide others
Think about a time when you guided or supported someone going through a difficult situation.
How can this capacity in you be strengthened?

Compassion and empathy
How easy is it for you to 'feel' what others may be going through? Is this a strength or a
weakness?

Unconditional love and devotion
What does "unconditional love" mean to you? In what form or manner have you experienced
this in your life? What was the impact on you and others?

Illuminates the dark
Think about a time when you found answers or hope or insights during a challenging time.
Can you recreate it the next time to face a challenge in life?
The Moon
Parashara: Moon represents the mind. Chandra is very windy and phlegmatic. She is learned
and has a round body. She has auspicious looks and sweet speech, is fickle-minded and very
lustful.

Phala Deepika: Excessive sleep, laxiness, phlegmatic affliction, (Kapharoga), diarrhoea,
carbuncle, typhoid, fever danger from horned and water animals, indigestion (Agnimandya),
tastelessness Aruchi-Anorexia, trouble from women, jaundice, mental aberration, impurity of
blood, danger from water; fear from Balagrahas, Goddess Durga, Kinnaras, God Yama,
serpent and from female Yaksha may be expected through the Moon. The Moon brings on
death through cholera, watery diseases (such as idodara-ascitis) or pulmonary diseases in
general. The Moon governs taste (along with Venus). The Moon signifies the left eye.

Uttara Kalamrita: Mind, mental disposition, virtue or vice, impartial outlook, intelligence, ability,
agility of mind, heart, happiness, joking, pleasure, lover, flower, good perfume, going to a
fortress, disease, blood purity and vitality, idleness, sleep, phlegmatic humor, consumption,
epilepsy, enlargement of the spleen, ailment of the shoulders, belly, eating, nourishment,
wheat, good fruits, thick sugarcane, honey, love of curd, salt, saline, sourness, silver, typhoid,
anything like water, well, tank, pond, mid-day, winter season, whiteness, white color, pearls,
diamond, nine gems, bell-metal, waistband, short stature, mother, woman, worshipping
Goddess Gauri, one who does penance, splendor, face, beauty, strength at night, facing
westward, love for west, getting a job, fame, the middle world, middle age, life, travel, going to
far off countries, Brahmin, umbrella or any other royal insignia, fish and other water creatures,
serpent, fine blossoming, brilliant things, clean crystal, soft and velvety clothes, and silk
garments.


Source: Parashara’s Light 9.0
Parts of Speech
Noun = Planet
What is acting
The core energy you are interpreting Moon, emotions
                                                            Emotions inward, fixed and
Verb = Duality (Masculine / Feminine)                           grounded, family
The direction of expression
Outward or inward, active or receptive Taurus, yin
                                                                       or
Adverb = Modality (Cardinal / Fixed / Mutable)
How the action happens
Initiates, sustains, or changes Taurus, fixed               Reflecting on my emotions
                                                                   supports me
Adjective = Element (Fire / Earth / Air / Water)
The kin/quality of the action
(fiery, practical, intellectual, emotional) Taurus, Earth

Area of life = House
Where it shows up
The area of life being affected 2H, support
Objective
Prediction
You will reflect on your emotions                  Emotions inward, fixed and
                                                       grounded, family
An opening
Have you considered reflecting on your emotions?
                                                              or
An invitation
Can you try reflecting on your emotions?           Reflecting on my emotions
                                                          supports me
A remedy
Reflect on your emotions
Planetary Aspects
Moon aspects only the 7th



                            R       R       U
                                        R
                       R            T
                                Q



Source: BPHS, 26:2-5
Planetary Aspects
Moon aspects only the 7th




                            R       T   R


                            S   R           U
                       R



Source: BPHS, 26:2-5
                                                                         T                >         W                     R
                                                                                 R
              Anapha:                                  Sunapha:                                    Kemadruma:
          Planets (except                           Planets (except                                 No planets
          Sun) in 12 from                                                                          before or after
             the Moon
                                                    Sun) in 2nd from
                                                                                                     the Moon          Q
                                                       the Moon                                                             S

            R        QS                                                                             U          V          T<

The native is free from disease,        The native is wealthy, intelligent, and self-   The native becomes poor, miserable, and
virtuous, and well-behaved. Possesses   earned in prosperity. Has good speech,          dependent on others. Lacks happiness,
good character, fame, and comforts.     fame, and independent success. Enjoys           learning, and support. Lives a life of
Lives a life of dignity and stability   comforts and respect                            struggle and instability

BPHS 24                                 BPHS 24                                         BPHS 24
Moon in Sign
Moon in Aries, Yang, Cardinal, Fire                         Moon in Libra, Yang, Cardinal, Air
I feel energized when initiating bold changes               I feel at peace when harmony and fairness prevail

Moon in Taurus, Yin, Fixed, Earth                           Moon in Scorpio, Yin, Fixed, Water
To feel safe I need stability and comfort                   I feel alive in deep emotional transformation

Moon in Gemini, Yang, Mutable, Air                          Moon in Sagittarius, Yang, Mutable, Fire
I feel emotionally balanced when expressing my thoughts     I feel free when I can explore, learn and expand

Moon in Cancer, Yin, Cardinal, Water                        Moon in Capricorn, Yin, Cardinal, Earth
I feel connected when nurturing and protecting others       I feel in control when I set out on long-term goals

Moon in Leo, Yang, Fixed, Fire                              Moon in Aquarius, Yang, Fixed, Air
I feel fulfilled when I am recognized and appreciated       I feel myself with unconventional ideas

Moon in Virgo, Yin, Mutable, Earth                          Moon in Pisces, Yin, Mutable, Water
I feel secure when I can organize, analyse and be helpful   I feel connected when I trust my intuition & emotions
