Mercury
Mercury
Goes around the Sun every 88 days
Fastest moving planet      Quick
Extreme temperatures Dual natured, neutral
Rotates 2x every 3 orbits Unique, intellect, analysis
Very large iron core    Nervous system
Permanent ice at the poles   Emotions not seen
Buddha Avatar
Intelligence - Am I looking for an intellectual
understanding, or wisdom that transforms me?


Communication - Do my words bring clarity, or
cause more harm/confusion?


The Middle Path - How balanced is my lifestyle?
Do I go to extremes, or is my life in balance?


Equanimity and detachment - Am I attached to
material possessions and/or desires? How can I
focus on what truly matters?
Mercury
Parashara: Mercury is speech, skin, is endowed with an attractive physique and the capacity to
use words with many meanings. He is fond of jokes. He has a mix of all the three humours.

Phala Deepika: Mercury brings on mental disease trouble to the vocal organs, eye-disease,
disease of throat and nose, fever, diseases arising from the three humours Vata, Pittha and
Kapha, poison, skin diseases anaemia, bad dreams, itches and scab Psoriasis, accidents due to
fire, troubles arising out of violence and imprisonment and harm from evil demons moving in the
abodes of Gandharvas, and in fiery pits (where these evil spirits usually dwell) or Gandharvas, the
Earth, mansions and horses,etc., as well as evil spirits. Mercury causes death through anemia,
bloodlessness and similar diseases and giddiness. Mercury governs smell (nose).

Uttara Kalamrita: Mercury rules over speech, courteous speech, writing, education, a scholar,
wise lectures, wisdom, Vedanta philosophy, mathematics, specialist in grammar, proficient in
Telugu language, depth of a language, astrology, spells of a high order, influencing through
recitation of mantras, sacred prayer, an amulet, versed in the legends of the past, green color,
garden, a beautiful house, moving in villages, treasury, mixed items, dust, infantry, palatial
building, sculpture, Brahmin, religious action, devotion, pilgrimage to holy places, temple, worship
of lord Vishnu, trading, horses, best ornaments, new garment, impartial nature, tranquility, even,
modesty, bad dreams, eunuch, facing North, wet, bell metal, renunciation, Ritu (season), child,
crooked look, heaven, fear, skin, navel, neck, humorous temperament, dancing, powerful in the
morning, Hemanta Ritu, stone to sharpen knives, family prosperity, Sudra, bird, after born, the
Directions, Atharva Veda, tower, pudendum, virile, benefic, fond of Northwest quarter, well,
doctor, expert in testing of the precious stones, paternal relation, maternal grandfather, maternal
uncle.
Stellarium
1.   Open Stellarium

2.   Adjust date, time and place to your current time and location

3.   Pause time

4.   Turn off atmosphere

5.   Find Mercury

6.   Turn on Constellations (lines, labels and art)

7.   Switch to Indian Vedic Sky Culture

8.   Tick mark Zodiac and Lunar Stations

9.   Which Zodiac Sign and Nakshatra is Mercury in?

10. Repeat for your birth date, time and place
 Apparent motions
 Sama - planet is moving at its usual speed

 Manda - planet is slowing down

 Mandotar - planet has the slowest motion

 Vikala - planet is stationary

 Vakra - planet appears to be moving back, i.e. Retrograde

 Char - planet is moving slightly faster than usual

 Atichar - planet enters the next sign in direct motion

 Anuvakra - the planet enters the previous sign while retrograde




Source: BPHS, Ch. 29, Verses 21-23
Duration of retrograde
Sun & Moon – never retrograde


Mercury – 3 weeks, 3 to 4 times a year
Venus – 6 weeks, occurs every 18 months
Mars – 2–3 months, occurs every 2 years
Jupiter – 4 months, occurs once a year
Saturn – 4-5 months, occurs once a year
Uranus – 5 months, occurs once a year
Neptune – 5 months, occurs once a year
Pluto – 5-6 months, occurs once a year


Rahu & Ketu – always retrograde
            Bhadra Yoga:                          Budha Aditya Yoga                       Lakshmi Narayana
           Own, Exalted or                          Sun & Mercury                           Yoga: Venus &
             MT and in                            together in any Sign                    Mercury together in
              Kendra                                                                          any Sign



Asc



When Mercury is in a kendra, and in its    When Mercury is joined with the Sun,     Wealth, prosperity and financial
  own sign or exaltation sign, Bhadra       the native becomes intelligent and     success. Strong intellect, business
 Yoga is formed. The native becomes           endowed with discrimination.            skills, and persuasive skills
intelligent, learned, eloquent, and pure
                in conduct.                            BPHS 15.1-5                Success in luxury, arts, finance and
                                                                                         entrepreneurship
             BPHS 76.6-7                      (not called Budha Aditya Yoga by
                                                          Parashara)              Balanced material & spiritual growth

                                                                                            Source: unknown
 Mercury in Sign
Mercury in Aries (Yang, Cardinal, Fire)                     Mercury in Libra (Yang, Cardinal, Air)
I think ambitiously about initiating creative ideas         I think enthusiastically in asserting my freedom

Mercury in Taurus (Yin, Fixed, Earth)                       Mercury in Scorpio (Yin, Fixed, Water)
I think patiently about persevering in practical matters    I think compassionately in persevering to the truth

Mercury in Gemini (Yang, Mutable, Air)                      Mercury in Sagittarius (Yang, Mutable, Fire)
I think courageously in responding to intellectual topics   I think optimistically to collaborate for transformation

Mercury in Cancer (Yin, Cardinal, Water)                    Mercury in Capricorn (Yin, Cardinal, Earth)
I think creatively in leading intense spaces                I think calmly in setting practical goals

Mercury in Leo (Yang, Fixed, Fire)                          Mercury in Aquarius (Yang, Fixed, Air)
I think ambitiously in focusing on my passion               I think innovatively to sustain my freedom

Mercury in Virgo (Yin, Mutable, Earth)                      Mercury in Pisces (Yin, Mutable, Water)
I think peacefully for collaborating in practical matters   I think peacefully while communicating my emotions
